=head1 NAME

CHANGES.pod

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Revision history for Perl module Text::NSP

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=over

=item 1.05 

Released March 20, 2008 all changes by TDP

=over

=item

Fixed problem with file Testing/statistic/t2 would appear 
(mysteriously) but not be in the MANIFEST. This file was left behind 
during /Testing/statistic/normal-op.sh and is now being removed.


=item

Fixed problem in /Testing where .sh files are sometimes not executable. 
Those files are now invoked via 'csh test.sh' rather than './test.sh', 
meaning that they no longer need to be executable.

=item

Fixed ticket number 24061 from rt.cpan.org regarding incorrection 
version information coming from Measures.pm

=item 

Archived all old ChangeLogs to doc/ChangeLogs directory. Began to use 
pod in CHANGES directory instead

=item 

Added doc/update-pod.sh to automatically refresh top level read only 
documentation including README, CHANGES, TODO and INSTALL

=item 

Fixed Makefile.PL to avoid problems during Windows install. This 
problem and fix was reported by Richard Churchill to the ngram mailing 
list. This may also address ticket #20371 from rt.cpan.org. 

=item 

Modified Makefile.PL to allow for use of 'make dist' and also creation 
of META.yml

=back

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

 Ted Pedersen, University of Minnesota, Duluth
 tpederse at d.umn.edu

This document last modified by :
$Id: CHANGES.pod,v 1.4 2008/03/20 15:12:27 tpederse Exp $

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<http://ngram.sourceforge.net>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2004-2008 Ted Pedersen

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover
Texts.

Note: a copy of the GNU Free Documentation License is available on
the web at L<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html> and is included in
this distribution as FDL.txt.

=cut

