=head1 NAME

NewStats.pod

=head1 SYNOPSIS

How to create a new statistics package for the Ngram Statistics Package.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The following steps should be followed while creating a new statistic
library package for NSP. 

=head2 Steps to Creating a New Module 

=over 4

=item 1. 

The filename should have an extension of .pm. Usually the name of 
the file should be Statistic.pm, where "Statistic" is the name of the
particular statistic you are writing.

=item 2. 

Let us say you have named your file Statistic.pm. The first line of the
file should declare that its a package of the same name as the filename.
Thus the first line of the file Statistic.pm should be...

   package Statistic;

=item 3. 

You need to implement at least two functions in your package

   i)   initializeStatistic()
   ii)  calculateStatistic()

Function initializeStatistic() is passed the following parameters: 

     1) The ngram size. eg: 2 (for bigrams), 3 (for trigrams) etc. 
     2) The total number of bigrams in the corpus. 
     3) The number of frequency combinations
     4) An array containing the frequency combinations.

The fourth data structure above may be accessed as a double
dimensioned array in which each row represents a single frequency
combination. On a given row, the first element denotes the number
of indices on this row, say 'n'. This is followed by 'n' numbers
representing the 'n' indices that make up this frequency
combination. (For details on frequency combinations, see README.pod). 

Thus for example say we are passing the default frequency
combinations for trigrams. There are 7 combinations in the
default. Thus the third item passed above will be '7'. After
this, the following two dimensioned array would be passed: 

     Row 1: 3 0 1 2
     Row 2: 1 0
     Row 3: 1 1
     Row 4: 1 2
     Row 5: 2 0 1
     Row 6: 2 0 2
     Row 7: 2 1 2

(The "Row X:" parts are for explanation purposes are not
passed). Thus row 1 start with the number '3' which says that
there are 3 more numbers on this row, 0, 1, and 2. Similarly, row
two 2 starts with '1' and then has one number after it: 0. And so on. 

This function is called before any calls to the function
calculateStatistic() and can be used by the statistic library to
set up any values that may be required for the calculations
later. For example, many statistical measures require the corpus
size, and so this would be a good place to save that value (the
second item passed above). Also, since the frequencies passed to
the calculateStatistic() function below follow the order defined
through the frequency combination array passed above, it is
important to note which indices are to be used for the
calculation. See dice.pm for an example of one way to do this.

This function is not expected to return anything. If an error
occurs, it can be reported through the mechanisms described below. 

The other mandatory function is calculateStatistic(). This is
passed an array containing the frequency values for an ngram as
found in the input n-gram file. The size of this array is
guaranteed to be exactly the same as the third number passed to the
initializeStatistic() function above. 

Function calculateStatistic() is expected to return a (possibly
floating) value as the value of the statistical measure calculated
using the frequency values passed to it. 

When a library is loaded, statistic.pl checks for these two
functions: if they are not implemented, then an error is reported
and the program quits. 

=item 4. 

Program statistic.pl also supports three other functions that are
not mandatory, but may be implemented by the user. These are:

     i) errorCode()
    ii) errorString()
   iii) getStatisticName()

Function errorCode, if implemented, is called immediately after the
call to function initializeStatistic() and immediately after every
call to function calculateStatistic(). 

This function should: 

   a) return 0 to imply that the last operation was successful.
   b) return an integer starting with 1 to imply that the last
      operation was unsuccessful, that there has been a fatal error
      and that statistic.pl should abort. 
   c) return an integer starting with 2 to imply that the last
      operation was unsuccessful but it is not a fatal error, just a
      warning. Program statistic.pl will not abort on error codes
      starting with 2. If there is a warning after a call to the
      function calculateStatistic(), then the ngram for which the
      warning was issued will be ignored by statistic.pl. 

If a non-zero code is returned by function errorCode(),
statistic.pl will print to STDERR the message "Error from statistic
library!", if the error code starts with 1, or the message "Warning
from statistic library" if the error starts with 2. Then,
statistic.pl will print the actual error code returned. Finally, if
function errorString() has been defined, this function will be
called. This function may be implemented by the user to return a
wordy description of the error or warning; the string returned by
this function is then printed to STDERR.

Note that functions errorCode() and errorString() should be
implemented in such a way that they reset the error code and the
error message respectively after a call to the function. This will
prevent mistakenly reporting a warning more than once. 

The third function that may be implemented is
getStatisticName(). If this function is implemented, it is expected
to return a string containing the name of the statistic being
implmented. This string is used in the formatted output of
statistic.pl. If this function is not implemented, then the
statistic file name entered on the commandline is used in the
formatted output. 

Note that all three functions described in this section are first
checked for existence before being called. So, if the user elects
to not implement these functions, no harm will be done. However, we
strongly recommend the implementation of at least the function
errorCode() since this is the only way for the statistic library to
report errors to the user. 

=item 5. 

Having implemented the two mandatory functions (in point 3 above)
and zero or more of the three non-mandatory functions (in point 4
above), one must make these functions available outside the
package. To do so, one has to export them, thusly. 

For this, first include the Exporter package by including the
following line in the program

   require Exporter;

Now include the following line to inherit Exporter's functions:

   @ISA = qw ( Exporter );

Now export the various functions implemented so that they are
accessible outside this package, by adding the following line
(assume that you have implemented only the two mandatory
functions): 

   @EXPORT = qw( initializeStatistic calculateStatistic );

If you implement say the errorCode() and errorString() functions
too, you may export them like so: 

   @EXPORT = qw( initializeStatistic calculateStatistic errorCode errorString );
   
Note that the user may implement other functions too, and may
export them if he so wishes, but since statistic.pl is not
expecting anything besides the five functions above, doing so would
have no effect on statistic.pl. 

=item 6. 

Finally, at the end of everything, add the line

   1;

   This will ensure that the LAST line of the file returns a true value, and
   is necessary so that when this package is loaded, it returns a TRUE value.

=back

=head2 Errors to look out for:

=over 4

=item 1. 

The filename does not end with a .pm.

=item 2. 

The rest of the filename (besides the extension) does not match the package
name (declared in the first line of the file). Remember its case sensitive!

=item 3. 

The five functions (2 mandatory, 3 non-mandatory) must have their
names match EXACTLY with those shown above. Again, names are all
case sensitive.

=item 4. 

The last line of the file is not "1;". This is necessary, and easily
overlooked!

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

 Ted Pedersen (tpederse@umn.edu)
 Satanjeev Banerjee (bane0025@d.umn.edu)

=head1 BUGS

=head1 SEE ALSO

 home page:    http://www.d.umn.edu/~tpederse/nsp.html

 mailing list: http://groups.yahoo.com/group/ngram/

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2000-2001, Satanjeev Banerjee and Ted Pedersen

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this  document  
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or  any  
later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no  
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.

Note: a copy of the GNU Free Documentation License is available on the web   
at L<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html> and is included in this    
distribution as FDL.txt. 
